README.md, before:

# DevOps Apprenticeship: Project Exercise

> If you are using GitPod for the project exercise (i.e. you cannot use your local machine) then you'll want to launch a VM using the [following link](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/CorndelWithSoftwire/DevOps-Course-Starter). Note this VM comes pre-setup with Python & Poetry pre-installed.

## System Requirements

The project uses poetry for Python to create an isolated environment and manage package dependencies. To prepare your system, ensure you have an official distribution of Python version 3.8+ and install Poetry using one of the following commands (as instructed by the [poetry documentation](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#system-requirements)):

### Poetry installation (Bash)

```bash
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
```

### Poetry installation (PowerShell)

```powershell
(Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://install.python-poetry.org -UseBasicParsing).Content | py -
```

You can check poetry is installed by running `poetry --version` from a terminal.

**Please note that after installing poetry you may need to restart VSCode and any terminals you are running before poetry will be recognised.**

## Dependencies

The project uses a virtual environment to isolate package dependencies. To create the virtual environment and install required packages, run the following from your preferred shell:

```bash
$ poetry install
```

You'll also need to clone a new `.env` file from the `.env.template` to store local configuration options. This is a one-time operation on first setup:

```bash
$ cp .env.template .env  # (first time only)
```

The `.env` file is used by flask to set environment variables when running `flask run`. This enables things like development mode (which also enables features like hot reloading when you make a file change). There's also a [SECRET_KEY](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.3.x/config/#SECRET_KEY) variable which is used to encrypt the flask session cookie.

## Running the App

Once the all dependencies have been installed, start the Flask app in development mode within the Poetry environment by running:
```bash
$ poetry run flask run
```

You should see output similar to the following:
```bash
 * Serving Flask app 'todo_app/app'
 * Debug mode: on
WARNING: This is a development server. Do not use it in a production deployment. Use a production WSGI server instead.
 * Running on http://127.0.0.1:5000
Press CTRL+C to quit
 * Restarting with stat
 * Debugger is active!
 * Debugger PIN: 113-666-066
```
Now visit [`http://localhost:5000/`](http://localhost:5000/) in your web browser to view the app.

Commit message:

exercise-2: Converts app to use Trello API

README.md, after:

# DevOps Apprenticeship: Project Exercise

> If you are using GitPod for the project exercise (i.e. you cannot use your local machine) then you'll want to launch a VM using the [following link](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/CorndelWithSoftwire/DevOps-Course-Starter). Note this VM comes pre-setup with Python & Poetry pre-installed.

## System Requirements

The project uses poetry for Python to create an isolated environment and manage package dependencies. To prepare your system, ensure you have an official distribution of Python version 3.8+ and install Poetry using one of the following commands (as instructed by the [poetry documentation](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#system-requirements)):

### Poetry installation (Bash)

```bash
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
```

### Poetry installation (PowerShell)

```powershell
(Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://install.python-poetry.org -UseBasicParsing).Content | py -
```

You can check poetry is installed by running `poetry --version` from a terminal.

**Please note that after installing poetry you may need to restart VSCode and any terminals you are running before poetry will be recognised.**

## Dependencies

The project uses a virtual environment to isolate package dependencies. To create the virtual environment and install required packages, run the following from your preferred shell:

```bash
$ poetry install
```

You'll also need to clone a new `.env` file from the `.env.template` to store local configuration options. This is a one-time operation on first setup:

```bash
$ cp .env.template .env  # (first time only)
```

The `.env` file is used by flask to set environment variables when running `flask run`. This enables things like development mode (which also enables features like hot reloading when you make a file change).

## Setting up Trello

You'll need to set-up a [Trello account](https://trello.com/signup), Trello board, a 'To-Do' list in that board, and create a [Trello API key](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/trello/guides/rest-api/api-introduction/#managing-your-api-key). 
Then create a API token:Create a API Token for Trello.
This can be done by clicking the “Token” link on the same page where your API key is displayed
![img.png](img.png)

Once you've done this, replace the TRELLO_API_KEY and TRELLO_API_TOKEN values in your .env file with you API key and token.

Finally, [get your board id](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/trello/guides/rest-api/api-introduction/#your-first-api-call) and replace the TRELLO_TO_DO_BOARD_ID with your board's ID.

## Running the App

Once the all dependencies have been installed, start the Flask app in development mode within the Poetry environment by running:
```bash
$ poetry run flask run
```

You should see output similar to the following:
```bash
 * Serving Flask app 'todo_app/app'
 * Debug mode: on
WARNING: This is a development server. Do not use it in a production deployment. Use a production WSGI server instead.
 * Running on http://127.0.0.1:5000
Press CTRL+C to quit
 * Restarting with stat
 * Debugger is active!
 * Debugger PIN: 113-666-066
```
Now visit [`http://localhost:5000/`](http://localhost:5000/) in your web browser to view the app.
